Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to continue working on the front end of our block type, let's begin by
setting up a function that will run when you click on one of the answers.
So back in our front end, just file towards the bottom down in our JSC X. We're looking for the list
item that gets output once for each answer on the opening line tag.
Let's just give it an on click prop and set it to equal curly brackets and let's give it an S6 Arrow
function.
We don't need to pass anything into it.
So just empty parentheses, arrow symbol and then let's call a function that doesn't exist yet, but
we'll make sure that it exists in about 10 seconds from now.
Let's call it Handal answer parentheses to call it and let's pass it the current index of the current
item that's been looped to.
So, for example, if you clicked on the first answer, arrays are zero based, so that would be a zero,
this would be one and this would be two.
So to do that, when MAP calls our function, the first thing it's going to pass, it is the current
item that's been looped to.
But if you give it a comma and include a second parameter, we can call it anything, but maybe just
index.
Well, map is going to pass in the current index.
So then when we're calling Hindle answer in these parentheses, let's just give it index.
Cool.
Now with this set up in mind, still within our quiz component function here, but just above the return
line, let's say function Handal answer parentheses, curly brackets.
Let's be sure to receive that incoming index and then let's just set up an if else to check to see if
they got it correct or incorrect.
So if parentheses curly brackets, let's also set up an Elvis block.
The condition is just if the incoming index double equals signs, if that equals props dot correct answer.
That means they got the answer correct.
For now, let's just output an alert that says congrats or else let's output an alert that says sorry,
let's give this to save and test it out very fresh.
I say that miaows a lot is a hamster.
Perfect.
We see.
Sorry, but if I click on Cat we see congrats.
Only we don't want an alert pop up right here.
We want this area to adapt on the fly.
Right.
And display the message there.
Now before we set this up to happen at the correct moment, let's first just display the incorrect,
incorrect message here at all.
Let me show you what I mean back in our code in the just below the unordered list, but still within
the overall div.
So right here where my cursor is blinking, let's have a div dot with a class of correct Dasch message
hit tab inside this div.
Let's have a paragraph element that says that is correct.
Now if we say this, just that on its own we see that it's not visible anywhere.
And that's because I set things up so that it needs a secondary modifier class of correct message dash
dash visible as soon as we add this class.
Now if we save.
Cool.
Well, you saw that it appeared or animated or faded in and then it stayed there for about two and a
half seconds and then it animated away.
Now, obviously, we want to display it at the correct moment when the user actually gets the question
right.
But for now, before we get to that, I think it would be nice if we added a smiley face icon to that
correct screen.
We don't need to do this, but I think it's a nice detail.
So in a new tab, if you visit, get bootstrap dotcom, we can then click on the icons link right here.
And there are a bunch of free icons that we can use, right.
Free, high quality, open source icons.
And it's very easy to get access to the SVG code.
So, for example, if we scroll down a bit in this filter, if you just type in smiley or I guess smile,
I'll use this emoji dash smile icon.
So just click on it.
And then down towards the bottom right corner, we see copying HTML so we don't even need the actual
file.
We can just click this icon right here to copy the SPG html into our clipboard and then back in voice
code just right above the paragraph, but still in that correct message div let's paste in our clipboard
and on the opening svg tag let's get rid of the fill equals current color and let's also change class
to be a class name.
OK, if we give that a save and refresh our front end.
Perfect.
Well, actually, not perfect, I think the icon would look better if it was just a little bit larger.
So back in our code on the opening SVG tag, let's just change the width and height from 16 and we can
just turn that to 20 for.
Test that out, cool, I like that.
Now let's set up the message that should show if you get the answer incorrect so we can actually just
copy and paste and duplicate this entire correct message div just copy that right below it, just duplicate
it and change the class name to incorrect message.
We actually don't even need to change the secondary visible class to incorrect.
You can just leave that as correct if you want to.
Just for a quick test to make sure that only this device is showing we can get rid of the visible class
on the first correct answer, give down in this incorrect copy, let's change the message to sorry,
try again and let's go grab the sad icon from the bootstrap Web site.
So let's go back a page, then the filter.
If you just search for frown or sad, let's use this emoji frown.
Just select the SVG code.
Back in our text editor, just change SVG here, paste it in, I'll change the height and width to twenty
four, I'll get rid of the fill color and I'll change class to class name.
OK, if we give that to save and refresh, perfect.
So that's just CSI Animation's handling the fading in and fading out timing.
It has nothing to do with reactor JavaScript at this point.
But now at this point, let's use react to add this visible modifier class at just the right moment.
So let's get rid of the hard coded, visible modifier class here.
So now neither of our classes, the incorrect or correct, will be showing when you first load the page.
So now let's revisit our Handal answer function, so if we scroll back up Handal answer, we don't actually
want to alert congrats with the pop ups.
Instead, we want to do something that triggers that visible modifier class giving added to one of the
divs below.
Now, if we were writing vanilla JavaScript or J query, we would just look in the Dom for the div with
a class of correct message or incorrect message.
However, in react, that's not how we do things.
We try to never, ever directly search through the dom or directly mutate the DOM.
Instead, our component can keep track of its own internal state.
Right.
A little bit of memory about the state that it's in.
And then our JSM, hence the name of the REACT Library, can react to that app state.
So for example, let's set things up so that our quiz component has a piece of state data called is
correct.
And it keeps track of whether you just got the question correct or incorrect.
Then we can just adjust the GSTs down here to display the visible modifier class.
If is correct, is set to true or in this case, if it's set to false.
Let me show you how we would do this.
So up towards the very top of our quiz function component.
So even right before our Handal answer function, let's add a new line, let's say const.
And now I know the syntax will seem weird at first, but let's just type it out and then I can explain
from there, let's say const square brackets and now I'm just making up these names.
But let's say is correct, comma set is correct.
And then after the square brackets have that equal use state parentheses.
OK, now before I explain what's going on here, let's make sure that we actually have access to the
react function called use state so we could say uppercase react dot use state here, but that's not
very elegant.
So instead what we can do up at the very top of our code when we're importing the uppercase react library
from the react package right after the uppercase react, we can say comma curly brackets inside those
curly brackets just say use state.
So now we actually can access it directly down here.
Now let's talk about what in the world is going on here.
So in REACT, there's something called state.
It's aptly named because its job is to describe the current state of your component or application.
Now, the idea with state is that you and I never directly mutated.
We just give it a new value and react handle's keeping track of it.
And then here's the beautiful part of react.
Any time your state changes or updates react is going to re render and rerun your function.
So when the page first loads react, we'll run our Jason and output it to the page.
And then when the user gets the question correct or incorrect, we're going to change the value of the
state called is correct to either be true or false when that value changes or when any piece of state
in react changes.
Well, REACT knows that we want to render the quiz component to this piece of the DOM and when state
changes, it's just going to render it again.
Let's get back to the topic at hand and discuss this square brackets syntax.
So we're creating a piece of state.
Let's actually give it an initial or default value.
So within these parentheses, let's set it to undefined.
OK, now the use state function is going to return an array.
It returns an array with two items.
The first item in the array is just a variable that gives you easy access to that piece of state in
that value.
The second thing in the array is a function that you can call to change or update that piece of state
in the future.
So this syntax is really just us d structuring the array that this returns, right?
So now we have a variable called is correct and another variable called set is correct.
So check this out within our handle answer function instead of alerting a congrats method, let's just
set is correct parentheses to call it give it a value of true and then you can just copy and paste this
in the else block.
We would do the same thing but set it to false.
So we just use the set is correct.
Now let me show you where we would use this.
Just the correct variable.
We would use that down in our JSA X if we find our correct message div we would just want to conditionally
and the is visible modifier class only if is correct is true.
So do this with.
Where it says class name equals instead of a string of text, let's actually have equals curly brackets
to do something dynamic and now in the curly brackets, we can have quotes, correct?
Dasch message.
But after the quote still in the curly brackets, let's say plus and then let's have a grouping set
of parentheses, and now we can just use a ternary operator to do something only if something is true.
So our condition will be if is correct, if that equals true question mark, what do we want to do if
it's true?
Well, let's just have a string of text.
We'll start with a space.
Right, because in case you separate your classes with a space.
So we're adding on to this string of text.
So we'll start with the space and then correct message dash dash visible after that string of text in
a ternary operator.
It's Colen.
And then you say what you want to do if your condition is not true.
So for us, that would just be nothing, just an empty string of text.
Let's give this a save and test it out.
So if we refresh, if we get the answer wrong, nothing happens.
But if we get the answer right.
Perfect.
Let's set up similar logic to show the sorry message.
If you get an answer incorrect to save a bunch of typing, we can actually just copy and paste the entirety
of this opening div tag line.
So I just select that entire line down here on the incorrect message div.
Just replace that opening div tag line, change the beginning class to incorrect message and then change
the condition to if is correct.
Equals equals false.
And actually I'm going to use three equal signs here.
You could use three equal signs almost everywhere I've used to throughout the entire JavaScript portion
of this course.
A lot of people consider that a best practice.
But I am going to be sure to do that here because I don't want undefined to be interpreted as false.
Right.
That initial value of undefined.
So only if it's literally the simple uninterpretable value of false do I want this to happen.
Let's give this a save, and if we test it out, a refresh if I get an answer wrong.
Perfect.
Now, you'll notice that if I try to get another answer wrong, so if I click Dog, nothing happens,
this is because is correct is already set to false from the first time we got to answer.
Incorrect.
So nothing is changing in state, so nothing is going to change in our react.
Has nothing new to react to.
Now, don't worry in our very next lesson will learn how to move forward from here and we'll spend a
bit of time on attention to detail finishing up the front end for our blacktip.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.